We will enjoy the next part now by brother Jeffrey Winder, a member of the governing body,
and his theme is Qualified for What?
Many in the world highly value a university education.
And one reason is because it can qualify them for a desired profession, such as a doctor,
or a lawyer, or an engineer.
What does your Gilead training qualify you to do?
To answer that question, let's look at the example of Jesus Christ,
because isn't it true Jesus received extensive training for his important assignment that he would have on the earth?
And in John 828, he said, just as the father taught me, I speak these things.
Well, certainly the training that Jehovah gave to Jesus prepared him to know what to accomplish when he was on earth with his assignment.
And so there was fulfilling scores of prophecies.
There is the selection and training of his disciples, making Jehovah's name and personality manifest,
and of course, laying down his life as a sacrifice which would sanctify Jehovah's name and provide a way for salvation to man.
But the training Jesus received not only prepared him to know what to do with his assignment, but also how to carry it out,
and this is really the focus of our talk.
Read with me please, our key scripture in the book of Matthew, chapter 20, in verse 28.
This reveals really the attitude, the approach that characterized everything that Jesus did on earth.
Matthew 2028, just as the son of man came not to be ministered to, but to minister, and to give his life as a ransom in exchange for many.
Jesus came to minister. His training prepared him to minister to others, and that humble approach characterized his entire ministry.
It permeated everything that he did on earth.
Consider a couple of examples.
First, he preached and taught others even when he was tired and exhausted.
One example is in the book of John. I invite you to turn there with me.
John, chapter 4, in verses 6 and 7.
So Jesus and his disciples are on the way to Galilee, and they take this route through Samaria, and Jesus is there.
They stop at the well, and he sends the disciples off to get food, and we pick up the account, John 4, 6.
In fact, Jacob's well was there.
Now Jesus, tired out as he was from the journey, was sitting at the well.
It was about the sixth hour.
Now, interestingly, the Bible indicates that this is the only, or the study note indicates that this is the only place in the scriptures where Jesus is said to be tired out.
Now that's more than just tired. He was spent, wasn't he?
But what happens? Verse 7, a woman of Samaria came to draw water.
What would Jesus do?
Here we see him in the illustration.
Would he take a pass? How witness to the next one? I am just exhausted.
No. He ministered to her.
Please, give me a drink. He says, and that we know leads into a wonderful witness that he gave to her.
It leads to them staying there for a couple of days and witnessing to others and many become believers in that area.
He ministered to others even when he was tired out.
Now the other account that might come to your mind when you think about Jesus teaching others when he was tired is the account in Mark 6.
We won't read it, but we remember this is when the 12 apostles had just come back from a preaching campaign, and they're excited, but understandably tired.
In fact, Mark 6.31 says that they were so busy, there were so many people coming and going that they didn't even have time to eat a meal.
Now interestingly, it was also around the same time that Jesus learns about the death of John the Baptist.
So understandably, he recommends to his disciples, let's go to a lonely place and let's get a bit of rest.
But what happens?
The crowd finds out where they're going, runs ahead of them, and is waiting for Jesus asking for more when they arrive at the other side of the shore.
Well, what would Jesus do? He's tired, he's hungry, he's grieving, but he ministers to them.
Mark 6.34 says he started to teach them many things.
The parallel account in Luke 9 says he received them kindly, so he truly ministered to them even when he was tired.
Here's a second way, we see Jesus ministering to others throughout his ministry.
He kept patiently teaching his disciples.
His disciples were a little slow to grasp, some important lessons weren't they?
How often did they argue over which one of them seemed to be the greatest?
Yet Jesus never gave up on him, he never lost his temper, never raised his voice, never berated them,
but instead he kept looking for new ways to teach them this important lesson.
Up until the night before his death, what did he do? Turn to John 13.
John 13 verses 4 and 5 at the evening meal.
He says he got up from the evening meal and laid aside his outer garments.
After taking a towel, he wrapped it around his waist.
After that, he put water into a basin and started to wash the feet of the disciples,
and to dry them off with the towel that was wrapped around him.
Here we see in our image, Jesus doing this remarkable feat.
The study note says this was the slave's job.
The slave would have normally done this, but here he takes that towel, he wraps the towel around him,
girds himself essentially, he puts on the slave's apron, doesn't he?
And he washes their feet one after the other.
He truly ministered to them.
And in verse 15, he says,
I set the pattern for you that just as I did to you, you should also do.
So this is the pattern that they too should minister to others.
Now finally, in a superlative expression of his love,
he surrendered his life as a ransom for sinful mankind.
And here we see him on the stake, a torturous death, a pain that ransom.
Like our theme scripture says, the Son of Man came to minister
and to give his life a ransom in exchange for many.
Could anyone minister in a greater way than that?
Millions, perhaps billions, will inherit everlasting life
because of Jesus ministering to others in such a self-sacrificing way.
Jesus came to minister.
His training prepared him to minister to others,
and we see that humble approach of serving others and everything that he did.
So now we come back to our original question.
What did your Gilead training prepare you to do?
You know the answer.
It prepared you to be ministers.
So how can you do that?
When you arrive at your assignment, how can you use the things that you learned in Gilead to that end?
When you arrive at your assignment, how can you show the friends that you have come to minister?
Well, to answer that question, let's first talk to the sisters.
How can you put on your slaves apron and minister to others in your assignments?
We'll consider two ways.
The first way is by your example.
Isn't it true we don't often know when someone is observing us
or our example is instructing or encouraging or helping others.
And yet it is a powerful way to minister to others.
Let's look at an example in the book of Mark chapter 12.
Mark chapter 12, and we'll look at this account in verses 41 through 44.
So it's the final week of Jesus' life.
And he goes to the temple in beginning Mark 12, 41.
He sat down with the treasury chests in view.
And began observing how the crowd was dropping money into the treasury chests.
And many rich people were dropping in many coins.
Now a poor widow came and dropped in two small coins of very little value.
So he called his disciples to him and said to them,
truly I say to you that this poor widow put in more than all the others who put money into the treasury chests.
For they all put in out of their surplus, but she, out of her want,
put in everything she had, all she had to live on.
Well the example of that poor widow encouraged Jesus,
but also provided a lesson that he could use to teach his disciples.
And then by including it in God's word, it instructs everyone who would read the Bible in the future.
But you think about the widow.
Here we have her in the picture.
Did she know that the son of God was observing her?
Likely not.
We don't know, but often we don't notice that.
But here he was observing her.
But this certainly isn't why she did what she did.
She wasn't doing it because well maybe the son of God will see me.
Rather she was a spiritual person.
And so she did the right thing for the right reason.
In her mind it was her privilege and her responsibility to contribute toward Jehovah's work.
And so he did what was right.
Well the fact was though that Jesus was observing her and he could use her example to teach others.
Well similarly you may not know when your example is being observed by others.
But you are spiritual women.
And so you do the right thing for the right reason whether people observe you or not.
But invariably as you follow this course day by day,
humble ones will observe your example and they will benefit from it.
And it may be even a little thing.
Like even if they just happen to see you stoop down and pick up a little trash
that fell in the hallway on accident someone didn't notice and you stopped to pick it up.
Or maybe when you steer the conversation to the positive.
Maybe they'll see you take an interest in others when they know that you're tired
or they see you support your husband without complaining.
Whatever it may be the friends might notice these things and benefit from your example.
And it really is a powerful way that you can minister to others.
Here's a second way that you can minister to others.
And this is by your words.
Now speaking of the capable wife, Proverbs 31 in verse 26 says this.
Proverbs 31, 26, she opens her mouth in wisdom.
The law of kindness is on her tongue.
Isn't that beautiful to think that our speech could be marked by wisdom and kindness.
But the truth is, mature spiritual sisters are known for their kind, insightful advice.
And I think every one of us could cite examples in our life of mature sisters
who helped us along the way with their interest in us and their sharing their insightful words of guidance.
And when we think about women like that, we can't help but think about Abigail.
So here she is humbly on her knees before David speaking words of wisdom to him.
She's using principles that she gleaned from the law and helped him to see that his actions,
if he moved forward, would incur blood guilt.
She also tactfully reminded him that Jehovah had anointed him to be the future king of Israel.
So he wouldn't want anything to solely his record or to cause him regret.
And even in David's emotionally charged state, her words of wisdom made him stop in his tracks and change his course.
Well, how can you use words to minister to others like that?
Well, it's not uncommon in talks like this at Gilead that were reminded.
You may not want to quote Gilead all the time that in Gilead we learn this and Gilead we learn that.
And we know that you won't do that. We understand why.
But the fact is, your Gilead training has deepened your well of good things to share.
And so humbly after listening, you may find opportunities where you can share these good things with others.
And it's often those informal, spontaneous one-on-one conversations where we get an opportunity to do this.
And maybe they crop up at work or in the hallway on the way home from work or between doors in the ministry or before and after the meetings at the Kingdom Hall,
where we can just take the time and listen to others, listen to what is on their hearts and mind.
And then we just, not preach to them, we just share Jehovah's thinking on the matter at hand.
And that has a tremendous impact.
We truly love you, sisters, for your kindness and your spiritual insight.
It really is a beautiful way that you can minister to others.
So those are two ways our sisters can minister to others by your example and by your words.
Now what about you, brothers?
How can you put on your slave's apron and minister to others in your assignment?
Well, certainly all the things that we said to the sisters would apply to you as well.
You can minister to others by your example and your words as well.
But Jehovah has also determined to use the brothers in positions of oversight to take the lead in his organization.
So when you arrive to your assignment, likely you will have some responsibility or oversight in your work.
But as Jesus example taught us, those in authority should also be ministers.
So how can you use your Gilead training then to minister to others the way you carry out your assignment?
Here are two ways.
The first way, approach your assignment as a shepherd.
Approach your assignment as a shepherd.
David set a fine example in this way because David, as a young shepherd boy in the field,
learned many things that would become very useful to him later in life and in his service to Jehovah.
He learned how to play the harp.
He learned how to use the sling.
He learned how to live outdoors.
But notice how his time as a shepherd affected his approach to the kingship.
Turn with me, please, to the book of Psalms.
And that's read Psalm 78 verses 70 through 72.
Psalm 78, 70 through 72.
He chose David his servant and took him from the sheep pins, from tending the nursing use.
He made him the shepherd over Jacob, his people, and over Israel, his inheritance.
He shepherded them with integrity of heart and with skillful hands, he led them.
So in time, David did become king, didn't he?
He was given theocratic authority over all of the people of Israel.
But he didn't approach that assignment as a dictator.
He never lorded it over the people of Israel, rather he approached it as a shepherd.
And he viewed those precious sheep as just that sheep who needed to be fed and protected and cared for.
And it characterized his kingship, didn't it?
The verse says that he shepherded with integrity of heart and with skillful hands.
He truly ministered to them.
Like David, minister to those whom you oversee.
Approach your assignment as a shepherd.
And when they sense that you are truly concerned about their well-being, about their workload, about their training,
when they see you often because you get out of your office and you visit them regularly and you shepherd them, then they will feel secure.
They will know that they have an overseer who loves them and is watching out for them and they will find joy in their assignment.
And they will even be able to endure a difficult work situation for a time because they know they have a way out.
They know they have an overseer who is aware of their situation and is doing what he can to assist them.
Here is a second way that you can minister to those whom you oversee.
And that is by showing honor and respect for them.
Turn with me, please, to the book of Romans, chapter 12.
Romans 12, and let's read verse 10.
Romans 12, 10, and brotherly love have tender affection for one another and showing honor to one another take the lead.
Certainly, overseers should take the lead and showing honor to others.
And truly, every servant of Jehovah deserves honor, isn't that true? And why?
It's because they were created in Jehovah God's image.
Each one is in a dedicated relationship with him.
They are praying to Jehovah, Jehovah is listening to their prayers and answering their prayers.
And also, the sheep belong to Jehovah, don't they?
Purchased with the precious blood of his only begotten son.
And at Bethel, we have an added reason to give them honor because each one has received his or her assignment from Jehovah.
The friends in our department, this is their sacred service, this is their assignment given to them from Jehovah and they know it well.
And so each one deserves respect and honor.
Well, how will they sense that we truly honor them from the heart?
They will sense it when we take note of their work and commend them frequently and sincerely.
They'll sense it when we follow through on their requests promptly.
And they'll sense it when we listen to their suggestions to improve the work.
And when they do that, if they should suggest an improvement, it doesn't mean that they are challenging our authority.
It doesn't mean that they're being presumptuous, it doesn't mean that we were doing it wrong before.
Even Jehovah invited suggestions from his angels in the case of Ahab, didn't he?
And he approved one of their suggestions.
Well, in these and other ways, we can show honor to our workmates.
We show them that we have come to minister.
So what does your Gilead training qualify you, prepare you to do?
It prepares you to minister to others.
It's what characterized Jesus ministry.
May it characterize your service as well.
And as we learn, sisters can do that through your example and your words.
Brothers can do that in addition to that by approaching your assignment as a shepherd
and also by truly taking the lead in showing honor and respect to others.
There's no doubt that Jesus was eager to show Jehovah that He benefited from the fine training that He received from Him.
And so not only did He do what Jehovah asked Him to do,
He carried it out in the way that Jehovah wanted Him to carry it out.
Well, we know that you too are eager to apply the good things that you learn in Gilead.
And so as you begin to think about maybe some of the things that you will do differently
when you arrive at your assignment, give close attention to how you will carry out your work.
Show that you have come to minister.
And when you do that, you will show that you truly benefited from your Gilead training.
The brothers will love you and above all, you will have the favor and approval of our God, Jehovah.
At this time, we will present the diplomas to the graduating class,
and Brother David Schaefer will assist me with this.
First, we have Brother Insistor Antila, and they will return to the Finland branch.
Brother Insister Bo Samen has been assigned to the Central Europe branch.
Brother Insister Benavides will return to the Brazil branch.
Brother Insister Bent will return to the Columbia branch.
Brother Insister Kal Kaniye will return to the Croatia branch.
Brother Insister Tsebeyo will return to the East Africa branch.
Brother and sister Epp will return to the central Europe branch.
Brother and sister Ernst will return to the Belgium branch.
Brother and sister Garcia will return to the Spain branch.
Brother and sister Wuthieris will return to the Padaguay branch.
Brother and sister Enrique will return to the Portugal branch.
Brother and sister Kim will return to the Korea branch.
Brother and sister Leung will return to the Taiwan branch.
Brother and sister Lixios will return to the Greece branch.
Brother and sister Mensa will return to the West Africa branch.
Brother and sister Muitte Neza will return to the Rwanda branch.
Brother Paul Vado will return to the French branch.
Brother and sister Perot have been assigned to the New Caledonia branch.
Brother and sister Pungu will return to the Angola branch.
Brother Kintanar has been assigned to the Dominican Republic branch.
Brother Rodriguez will return to the Venezuela branch.
Brother and sister Rosa Ball have been assigned to the Liberia branch.
Brother and sister Stoych, which will return to the Serbia branch.
All right, now would you like to see the entire...
I'll give them a moment to be seated, 150th class of Gillian.
So many people love you.
And above all, Johova and his son love you very much.
At this time, we would like to give our attention to Brother Marco Calcani
from Croatia, who will read the class letter.
To the governing body, dear brothers, we wish to thank you
for the immense privilege of attending the 155th class of Gillian.
From the day we received our invitation to attend the school,
we felt as David did when he said,
Who am I, or Johova God?
And what is my house that you have brought to me this far?
Over the past five months, we have seen and tasted
that there is no God like Johova.
We are grateful to our great instructor, Johova,
and great teacher Jesus Christ for the spirit of our instruction.
We are also grateful to our gearing instructors,
who imparted by very selves day after day.
We will not soon forget the many lessons provided
which highlighted the very goal to strengthen our faith.
Through personalized teaching, advice, and counsel,
they became our mentors and friends.
During our deep study of God's Word,
we were continually amazed by the beauty of Johova's qualities
and we were helped to see more clearly the Bible's breadth
and length and height and depth.
From the time we arrived, we experienced the love, generosity,
and hospitality of a better family.
We quickly noticed where deep appreciation for spiritual matters
by their consistent interest in what we were learning.
These brothers and sisters became beloved to us.
As we reflect on our time together, Gilead,
we are filled with a deep sense of awe
for what we have learned, the memories created,
and the friendships cultivated.
Having you, dear brothers of a governing body
and your helpers spend your precious time teaching us
and getting to know us personally
has made the deep and lasting impression.
Your fellow feeling and humility were endearing.
More than ever, you are determined to work hard
to imitate your example of self-sacrifices love
and crystal unity and to make Johova's heart rejoice.
Some 106 verse 1 says,
Praise Ja, give thanks to Johova for he is good.
As we now come to the end of his incredible experience,
we account to appreciate more and more
how truly good Johova is to his servants
and to experience his goodness like never before.
We echo the words of a psalmist.
We want, we will repay Jahova for all the good,
yes, done for us.
We are determined to do good
and to strengthen, stabilize the branches
and the field where we are assigned.
Thank you for preparing us in this way
and for the confidence you have placed in us.
We can only pray that each of us
will live Gilead as a better servant to Johova
than when we arrived.
We love you from the bottom of our hearts
and we thank you for allowing us
a spirit to experience with theocratic milestone together.
We have heartfelt love, your brothers and sisters
of a 150 feet class of Gilead.
Well, thank you so much for that beautiful letter.
We appreciate it.
And also want to thank Brother Schaefer
who helped with the handing out of your diplomas.
And aren't you excited to have those in your hands now?
That's wonderful.
Well, your schooling was designed to strengthen your faith
and we're confident that it is done just that.
Our faith keeps us strong to face what's ahead of us.
At first John 5.4, the Apostle John wrote,
this is the conquest that has conquered the world.
You know it, our faith, right?
We need very strong faith in the time
that is yet ahead of us in this system of things.
And our program today highlighted
a number of fine examples for us to imitate
and doing just that.
We show that we're strengthening our faith
when we take time to care for our spiritual needs
and caring for our spiritual needs
always means caring for the basics first.
We can't neglect the basic things.
Even though you have graduated from this beautiful school,
the basics always count.
So be certain to attend Christian meetings regularly.
We need the congregations.
Brothers and sisters have thrived in the congregations
for decades without ever serving at a branch,
without ever being in Bethel.
But there's no one in Bethel
who can survive without the congregation.
So we need it.
It's part of Jehovah's basic arrangement for us.
That's part of what he does
by means of Holy Spirit to keep us strengthened and encouraged.
So give attention.
Always to Christian meetings.
We know you'll be busy,
but keep in mind the basics.
Also be certain to speak zealously to others
about Jehovah's name and kingdom.
We need the ministry.
Remember the basics.
Also be certain to maintain strong faith
and trust in Jehovah.
And a very important way we do that is through what means
for personal prayers as we draw close to him
and ask him to strengthen our faith.
And he will do it for us as we do all these other things
to read his word every day
and apply its counsel and all that we do.
So you leave here with a treasure.
It's not just the diploma you're holding in your hands.
You have a treasure in your hearts and in your minds.
The things Jehovah has done for you,
the experience you've had in the school.
Yes, the instruction that has been so helpful.
But remember that precious treasure
will only remain with us or with you
as long as we stick to the basics.
And Jehovah will bless you always for that.
He will love you for it
because he sees that we're humble and we acknowledge
we need these basic things to keep going.
So in summary,
don't take liberties with your spiritual routine
now that you've graduated from this wonderful school
never become self-satisfied
because of receiving a privilege that you may enjoy.
There's so much more to learn and to do.
The future holds endless and wonderful privileges
for those who love Jehovah.
So keep learning
and keep growing as a spiritual person, a godly person
and always trust in Jehovah
who is so kind to all of us.
He's kind to you.
He's kind to all of those who love him
and do their very best in serving him
and who rely on him.
And he will love you and bless you always for it.
As you remain focused on what Gilead School has strengthened you to do,
you'll be ready to continue fighting
as 1 Timothy 612 says,
the fine fight of the faith.
And we have confidence that you will.
You'll be a blessing
to Jehovah's holy name,
adding to its honor,
but also to those with whom you will serve.
You will be a blessing
and they will love you for it
and you will love them in return
and they will help you too.
May Jehovah and his dear son
bless each of you always for it.
We love you very much
and we're so happy to see you at this point now.